---
title: Blog 0
---
  The main accomplishment for this week in CIT480 was completing the first lab assignment: Lab A - Setting up your Environment. This lab was created for CIT160/L and was not very difficult to accomplish. The lab assignment was ensuring a ssh environment is working and available for use, installing "Docker," installing a Docker container and setting up accounts for the container and for csun's ssh environment (ssh.sandbox.csun.edu). 
  
  Setting up ssh is very simple and in my case had already been completed for a prior course. This let me move on to insalling Docker, which took a bit of time. I installed Docker on both Ubuntu and Windows. The Windows install was as simple as downloading an installer and running a few commands to make sure it worked (docker -v). Ubuntu however required a few more steps. First I confirmed my Ubuntu version and navigated to the corresponding directory. Next, I downloaded Docker's .deb file for my Ubuntu version and installed using "sudo dpkg -i /path/to/package.deb. Initially, Docker was not working. However, after some trouble shooting, I determined that the base install failed to add a docker group. Once I created the group everything else fell into place and was functioning properly. 
  
  The rest of the lab pertained to building a docker image (docker build), creating a container from the image (docker create), and setting up profiles for both the container and ssh.sandbox.csun.edu. The lab concluded with asking and answering questions and saving them into the Lab A assignment, then generating a lab report for submission.
