---
title: Blog 4
---
  HTML5 (Hypertext Markup Language) is the current standard markup language when it comes to building webpages. It allows for text to be displayed, links to be created, images and videos to be imbedded, and so much more. This week, I build a simple website to experiment with a few CSS features and brush up on my HTML. Normally, a website would not consist of just HTML5 and CSS but rather would include Javascript, PHP, etc. However for the sake of practice these are the only two languages I used. 
  
  Here is a link to the finished product: https://chris-bushman-project1.glitch.me/
  
  HTML is a fairly simple language to understand. It generally composed of the tags <head>, <body>, and <footer>. The head tag contains the title of the webpage, the character-set that is being used, links the webpage to a .css file and in this case sets the webpage's resolution to match the window size of any web browser. The body tag defines the html document's body and contains text, images, hyperlinks, etc. The footer tag generally contains information about the content on the webpage. In my case, the footer tag contains a link to another website that has more information on the subject at hand. 
  
  Inside of my body tag, there is a list of links that navigate around the website. There is also a <main> tag that includes information on the books that are being discussed on the website. Images of each book are also contained in the main tag. 
  
  The CSS stylesheet contains CSS code that controls the look of the website. For example, the entire website has a background image of a bright forest area. To accomplish this, the .css file contains the code "background-image: url("url to the embedded image");". The .css file also contains numerous classes such as ".footerStyle" and ".contentTable", each of can be called upon within the .html files in order to style that particular element.
