---
Title: Blog 12
---
  When creating a VPC with Terraform, it is necessary to set up what are called "Security Groups." Security groups on AWS are what allow traffic to flow in and out of EC2 instances, different subnets, or in this week's case, an ECS cluster.
  The VPC I have worked on this week contains two specific security groups that will be discussed in this blog. One for ElasticSearch, and one for Kibana. ElasticSearch is a search engine that is to be implemented on the ECS cluster being built. Kibana is a data visualization tool for ElasticSearch that will also be deployed on the ECS cluster.
  The first security group is for ElasticSearch. It contains a number of elements.
  
   ```
  resource "aws_security_group" "ElastiSearch" {
  name        = "ElastiSearch"
  description = "Allow inbound traffic for ElastiSearch"
  vpc_id      = "${aws_vpc.mainvpc.id}"
   ```
   
  Here, "ElastiSearch" is the name given to the security group. It is associated with the ID of the desired VPC, which in this case was named "mainvpc."
  
  ```
  ingress {
    # TLS (change to whatever ports you need)
    from_port   = 22
    to_port     = 22
    protocol    = "tcp"
    # Please restrict your ingress to only necessary IPs and ports.
    # Opening to 0.0.0.0/0 can lead to security vulnerabilities.
    cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"]# add a CIDR block here
  }

  ingress {
    from_port   = 80
    to_port     = 80
    protocol    = "tcp"
    cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"]
  }

  ingress {
    from_port   = 443
    to_port     = 443
    protocol    = "tcp"
    cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"]
  }
  ```
  
  "Ingress" opens up ports for inbound traffic. These three ports are pretty standard to have open for inbound traffic when dealing with web applications or websites. Port 22 is for SSH traffic, port 80 is for HTTP and port 443 is for HTTPS. For ElasticSearch and Kibana however, there are four unique ports that need opened: ports 9200, 9300, 5601 and 5044.
  
  ```
  ingress {
    from_port   = 9200
    to_port     = 9200
    protocol	= "tcp"
    cidr_blocks	= ["0.0.0.0/0"]
  }

  ingress {
    from_port	= 9300
    to_port	= 9300
    protocol	= "tcp"
    cidr_blocks	= ["0.0.0.0/0"]
  }
  ```
  
  Both of these ingresses are for ElasticSearch. Port 9200 is for running a rest api. This is needed in order to implement Kibana. Port 9300 is the default communication port. It is used for nodes commuication.
  
  ```
  ingress {
    from_port   = 5601
    to_port     = 5601
    protocol	= "tcp"
    cidr_blocks	= ["0.0.0.0/0"]
  }

  ingress {
    from_port	= 5044
    to_port	= 5044
    protocol	= "tcp"
    cidr_blocks	= ["0.0.0.0/0"]
  }
  ```
  
  Both of these ingresses are for Kibana. Port 5044 is the default port for using the Beats input plugin. This plugin allows Logstach (to be used in conjunction with ElasticSearch and Kibana) to receive events from the Elastic Beats framework. Port 5601 is simply the port used to access Kibana, as it is a web application.
  Take note that both ElasticSearch and Kibana both have their own individual security groups. Also note that each of these security groups contain an "egress" that, as opposed to ingress, allows for outbound traffic to flow.
