---
Title: Blog 10
---
  Terraform is a simple software tool that uses high-level configuration language to provision software infrastructure. This week, I used Terraform to deploy cloud infrastructure over AWS to be used in conjunction with Ansible playbooks in order to create and connect webservers in various subnets.
  Terraform uses a high-level configuration language that is easy for humans to understand and works well with machines. In this way, it is similar to Ansible. However, Ansible has certain (and tedious) syntax requirements that Terraform does not. Furthermore, Ansible's main purpose is configuring whereas Terraform's main purpose is structuring. 
  Creating a VPC using Terraform seemed daunting at first. But after some trial and error, the task was completed. To set up the VPC using Terraform, the provider must first be established. In this case, the provider is Amazon AWS in AWS's "us-west-2" region. Translated into a .tf file, the provider looks like this:
  
  ```
  provider "aws" {
    region = "us-west-2"
  }
  ```

  Creating the VPC and corresponding subnets however takes a bit more thinking. Terraform provides various "resources" that can be incorporated into the .tf file's code. One of these resources is "aws_vpc" and is used to set up a virtual private cloud on AWS.
  
  ```
  resource "aws_vpc" "main" {
    cidr_block = "10.0.0.0/20"
    enable_dns_hostnames = true
    enable_dns_support = true
  }
  ```
  
  The most important part of this snippet of code is the declaration of the CIDR block. This CIDR block is used to specify a range of IPv4 addresses for the VPC. The "/20" at the end of the IPv4 address declares that each subnet may hold 4094 hosts. This is plenty more than needed for the purpose of this endeavor as the VPC and EC2 instances created within are only serving a few users at most.
  
  A route table is needed for a functioning VPC with subnets. In my case, I have both public and private subnets that need both public and private routing tables. Here is what the public routing table looks like:
  
  ```
  resource "aws_route_table" "public_route" {
    vpc_id = "${aws_vpc.main.id}"

    route {
      cidr_block = "0.0.0.0/0"
      gateway_id = "${aws_internet_gateway.gw.id}"
    }

    tags = {
      Name = "my-public-route-table"
    }
  }
  ```
  
  Seen here is how a resource in Terraform can call on another resource. Under "route," the gateway ID calls on another resource "aws_internet_gateway" that has been set up elsewhere in the .tf file. "vpc_id" also calls on another resource, "aws_vps" which is shown above. 
  
  The last thing I want to cover in this week's post is creating a public subnet to be implemented in the VPC using Terraform.
  
  ```
  resource "aws_subnet" "public_subnet" {
    count = 3
    vpc_id     = "${aws_vpc.main.id}"
    cidr_block = element(var.public_cidrs,count.index) #"${var.public_cidrs[count.index]}"
    map_public_ip_on_launch = true
    availability_zone = "${data.aws_availability_zones.available.names[count.index]}"
    tags = {
      Name = "public-subnet-$[count.index + 1]"
    }
  }
  ```
  
  Here, three public subnets are being created (as denoted by "count"). "aws_vpc" is once again called and assigned to the VPC ID. The CIDR block in this case is assigned to this subnet according to an index number. The purpose behind this structuring is to reduce redundancy in the code. Since three subnets are being created, this resource loops through three times. The alternative would be to have three blocks of nearly identical code with each creating one of the subnets. This count and index system is apparent in each argument of the resource.
