---
title: Blog 5
---
  Setting up an Apache web server is fairly easy and straightforward. Installing a web server onto an AWS EC2 instance however requires a few more steps. First and foremost, an AWS account is required. This can be a bit pricey, but in my case the costs have been mostly bypassed with an AWS Educate account, which provides $100 in credits. Once inside the console, navigate to the "Instances" webpage and launch a new instance. I chose to launch an Ubuntu instance as Ubuntu is an operating system with which I am very familiar with. Since this instance will not be heavily trafficed, a "t2.micro" instance type will suffice. 
  
  When configuring the instance, most setting can be left to default. However, I chose to use a virtual private network (VPC) with subnets that had been configured beforehand. At this point, the instance configuration can be reviewed and launched. One final step is to create a key pair that will be used to SSH into the elastic instance once it is running. Every time an instance is created, there is the option of creating a new key pair, or choosing a key pair that has already been created on this AWS account. It is imperative that a new key pair be downloaded on this screen, as without it the new instance will not be accessible and will have to be deleted and recreated. 
  
  Once the instance has been launched and has started up, the instance can be accessed. I accessed the instance through a simple SSH client. The syntax for getting into the instance looks like this, "ssh -i /path/my-key-pair.pem ec2-user@ec2-198-51-100-1.compute-1.amazonaws.com", where "ec2-user" is the user trying to access the instance and "198-51-100-1" is the IP address of that particular instance. Now, sudo commands can be run and a LAMP stack can be installed.
  
  Setting up an Apache web server is fairly easy and can be accomplished a number of ways such as just using the command line (terminal) or creating a script. I created an Ansible playbook to install the web server. The contents of the .yaml file look like this:
  
  - hosts: localhost
  tasks:
          - name: install nano
            apt:
                    name: nano
                    state: latest

          - name: install git
            apt:
                    name: git
                    state: present

          - name: install apache2
            apt:

                    name: apache2
                    state: latest

          - name: install mysql-client
            apt:
                    name: mysql-client
                    state: latest
                    
          - name: install php and dependencies
            apt: 
                    name={{ item }} 
                    update_cache=yes 
                    state=latest 
                    with_items:
                          - php
                          - libapache2-mod-php
