---
Title: Blog 29
---

As I have mentioned in previous blogs, AWS instances can be fully automated. They can be created, configured, launched and terminated automatically if we choose to do so. This week, I had the opportunity to practice one more tidbit of automation: auto-scaling.

Auto-scaling is AWS's method of automatically deploying and terminating new instances based on need. For example, a popular web application may have far more users during the daytime than it would at night. Auto-scaling allows for more instances, and thus more computing resources, to be available for use. At night, those extra instances are removed since their extra resources are not needed. The idea here is to automatically determine need and reduce costs autonomously. 

The two basic components of auto-scaling with AWS are a load balancer and configuration for auto-scaled instances. A load balancer simple determines how incoming traffic (clients and users) are distributed among the various EC2 instances and resources. Without load balancing, users would congregate on only a few of the instances, leaving the majority of them unused and sitting idle.

Auto-scaling configuration is just as important. It determines what types of instances are launched, how they are launched, their security groups, how many instances are launched, etc. In my case, I had between a minimum of two and a maximum of six instances running at any given time on a Virtual Private Network consisting of two public and two private subnets. 
