---
Title: Blog 22
---

One of the many advantages for running AWS instances is the large amount of computing resources available on the cloud. Running just one elastic instance of any type will only provide so much processing power. Some programs and processes require a huge amount of resources in order to run effectively. In such situations, High Performance Computing (HPC) is necessary. HPC can be achieved through using a cluster of multiple elastic instances and combining their overall computing resources.

AWS offers a service known as AWS ParrallelCluster. ParrallelCluster is a cluster of elastic instances that are auto-scaled based on resource needs. Additional nodes are only deployed when there is more work to be done.

Setting up ParrallelCluster takes a few steps. First, I installed the latest version of ParrallelCluster onto a Ubuntu virtual machine using a simple "pip" command below.

  ```
  $ pip3 install aws-parallelcluster --upgrade --user
  ```
  
Once ParrallelCluster is installed, it must be configured. This process is suprisingly straightforward as configuration is mainly a series of clearly defined choices displayed by the terminal. Assuming AWS credentials are already setup on the virtual machine, start configuration with the simple command below.
  
  ```
  $ pcluster configure
  ```
From this point configuration is done step by step. Choosing the desired AWS region, the desired cluster size, the node types, VPC, etc. If all goes well, no error messages are present and our pre-configured cluster can be created with this final command:

  ```
  $ pccluster create mycluster
  ```
