---
Title: Spring Blog 1
---
   HTML, CSS and Javascript are three fundamental building blocks for a simple website. HTML creates the structure of the website and can be compared to the skeleton of a human body. CSS handles styling and most of the superficial aspects of the website, such as setting the background and the sizing and placement of different elements that make up the site. CSS can be compared to the skin of the website. Javascript handles the website's functionality. Any interactive piece of a simple website was likely built with Javascript. Javascript can be thought of as the muscles of the website.
   
   Javascript is meant to be used with its many libraries. Integrating Javascript libraries saves tons of time and resources that would be wasted creating some functionality that already exists through use of a library. This week, I dove down the rabbit hole that is socket.io. Socket.io is a Javascript library that, when integrated, allows for realtime communications between servers and web clients. In my case, I used socket.io to help create a simple browser based chat room.
   
   One fundamental function of socket.io is connecting a client to a server.
   
   ```
$(function () {
  var socket = io('http://34.94.156.131:7110', { path: '/socket.io' }); // connect to server
  
  console.log("A USER CONNECTED");
  socket.emit('fromServer');
   ```

   The snippet of code above was taken from the client side of the chat room. A function is declared and the socket is set to point to the URL "http://34.94.156.131:7110". Note that in this case socket is connecting through port 7110, which is used for TCP/UDP. Upon successfully connecting to the URL, the console log will display the simple message "A USER CONNECTED" for testing purposes. 
   Meanwhile on the server side, socket.io is used for listening on port 7110 for a connection to occur.
   
   ```
   http.listen(7110, function () {
    console.log('listening on *:7110');
   });
   ```
   
   Another socket.io fundamental used for this chat room is "emit". Emit is used to broadcast a message to all clients connected to the server. Looking at the snippet below, "io.emit" broadcasts a user's chat message once received by the server. This chat room is a prime example of how socket.io tools can be utilized to help build both simple and complex web applications.
   
   ```
   io.on('connection', function (socket) {
    socket.on('chat message', function (msg) {
        io.emit('chat message', " " + msg);
    });
   });
   ```
