---
Title: Blog 28
---

Zapier is a very popular integration service that is very widespread and globally accepted. Zapier is used with all sorts of web applications, software suites, custom software and more. The two huge advantages of using Zapier are it's huge popularity among all sorts of companies and its ability to automate mundane tasks. This week, I used Zapier for the first time to tackle a problem my company was facing.

The websites and Javascript that my company uses to send data to our database has not been working properly for some time now. After countless hours of troubleshooting, consulting, and testing, it became apparent that this issue could not be solved without a comprehensive overhaul of our websites as well as our database, which is outside the scope of our small company. To remedy the situation, I turned to Zapier.

Zapier has thousands of integrations with all sorts of web applications and other software services. The service that hosts our websites and online forms already had an integration created with Zapier months ago, so the first hurdle was already taken care of. My objectives at this point were to test the integration already in place, extract and reformat the needed data, and send the data to our database through an HTTP request.

Zapier has independent functions on top of their thousands of integrations. Using Zapier is actually very easy and dare I say idiot-proof, but figuring out which exact tools to use for the job took some time. I ended up using the webhook function on my "Zaps" (integrations). 

After connecting our website, I extracted the data using the webhook tool and assigned variables according to our database's posting guide, which consists of accepted variables and a posting URL. 
