---
Title: Blog 29
---

A web forum is a website where users can post text, links, images, articles, and anything else that the website's developers deem necessary. Like any other website, a web forum requires a server be set up to handle traffic and data. This week, I used an open source forum platform known as Discourse to create a basic web forum that will be implemented in my term project. Like most other projects I have worked on recently, I will be using AWS services to deploy Discourse.

First, I created a new virtual private network. Since this was my first time using Discourse and this was more of a trial run than anything, I allocated just four subnets to utilize. For the security group, I opened ports 22, 80, and 443 (SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS respectively) for inbound connections. Then I set up a simple RDS database and connected it with the VPC and security group mentioned above. 

At this point, I needed to create a Redis server, which is something that I had never done before. Redis is the essentially the server that allows the forum site to support strings, streams, lists, and various other abstract data structures. This type of server is  perfect for hosting a simple web forum. I created the Redis server in a cache subnet group within the VPC I had previously created. There are numerous tutorials online regarding how to set this up and it was not all that difficult, so I will skip the nitty gritty details and move on.

AWS provides a SMTP service to set up email notifications. I used this to verify an email I use for testing and launched an Ubuntu instance through Amazon's EC2 service. You may look over my previous blogs for details on how to set up both of these services. 

The final challenge (and greatest) was configuring the Discource server. I SSH'd into the server and installed Docker along with a couple of software packages for dependencies. I used the following commands to install these and create a few YAML containers:

   ```
   sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get install linux-image-generic-lts-raring linux-headers-generic-lts-raring
sudo reboot # requires ssh back into server
sudo apt-get install git
wget -qO- https://get.docker.io/ | sh
sudo usermod -aG docker ubuntu
sudo mkdir /var/docker
sudo git clone https://github.com/discourse/discourse_docker.git /var/docker
cd /var/docker
sudo cp samples/web_only.yml containers/app.yml
sudo cp samples/redis.yml containers/redis.yml
sudo cp samples/data.yml containers/data.yml
   ```
   
Since this was my first time configuring a Discourse server, I referenced a couple of YAML templates on GitHub to set up the app.yml file for Discourse itelf and for the admin email confirmation elements of the site. Like any other website, an SSL key and certificate were used to set up HTTPS. 

[https://www.stroupaloop.com/assets/images/posts/aws-cf-setup-1.png](testImage)
